
# 1 open()

```
https://appdividend.com/2021/06/03/how-to-create-file-if-not-exists-in-python/

The open() is a built-in Python function that opens the file and returns it as a file object. 

The open() takes the file path and the mode as input and returns the file object as output.

mode: The open() function takes one of the following modes.
w: It is for write mode.
r: It is for reading mode.
a: It is for append mode.
w+: Create the file if it does not exist and then open it in write mode.
r+: Open the file in the read and write mode.
a+: Create the file if it does not exist and then open it in append mode.
```


# 2 将内容中添加到 file 中 


```
Write()
with open("randomfile.txt", "a") as o:
    o.write('Hello')
    o.write('This text will be added to the file')

Print()
with open("randomfile.txt", "w") as external_file:
    add_text = "This text will be added to the file"
    print(add_text, file=external_file)
    external_file.close()

```



# 3 touch()

touch() method of the pathlib module. 
The path.touch() method creates the file at the specified path.
If the file already exists, then it won’t do anything. Otherwise, it will create a new file.


from pathlib import Path

fle = Path('data.py')
fle.touch(exist_ok=True)
f = open(fle)

# 4 shutil

import shutil

## 4.1 shutil.rmtree 无法删除 .git\\objects\ 中的文件

问题原因 
1 rmtree has issues in deleting readonly files.
https://stackoverflow.com/questions/1213706/what-user-do-python-scripts-run-as-in-windows 
https://stackoverflow.com/questions/1213706/what-user-do-python-scripts-run-as-in-windows


2 
https://stackoverflow.com/questions/39566812/python-script-not-deleting-git-files-in-windows

ERROR_ACCESS_DENIED (5) implies that a process has the file memory-mapped (executable or data), and you would at least be able to rename the file to another directory on the same volume. 
Most sharing problems are instead due to basic access sharing (e.g. FILE_SHARE_DELETE) and show up as ERROR_SHARING_VIOLATION (32), which isn't the case here

Another possibility is that the file was opened with FILE_SHARE_DELETE and then deleted without closing the handle. 
Windows doesn't unlink a file from a directory until all references are closed. If a file is currently 'deleted' (that's just a flag on the file control block), it's not possible to open a new handle for any access. 
Deleting a file requires opening a handle with DELETE access, so DeleteFile will fail with ERROR_ACCESS_DENIED. The parent directory also can't be deleted until the file gets unlinked.


=======
解决方法
 不需要  running the script as administrator (no change.)

方法1  change the permissions
import subprocess
import shutil
import os
import stat
from os import path
for root, dirs, files in os.walk("./cloned_repo"):  
    for dir in dirs:
        os.chmod(path.join(root, dir), stat.S_IRWXU)
    for file in files:
        os.chmod(path.join(root, file), stat.S_IRWXU)
shutil.rmtree('./cloned_repo')


2方法2 
shutil.rmtree() offers you sort of exception handlers to handle this situation. You call it and provide an exception handler like this:

import errno, os, stat, shutil
使用 shutil.rmtree(target_path, ignore_errors=False, onerror=handleRemoveReadonly)

然后 加入 这个的 function (os.unlink 必须加入， 不然无效  )
def handleRemoveReadonly(func, path, exc):
    """
    Error handler for ``shutil.rmtree``.

    If the error is due to an access error (read only file)
    it attempts to add write permission and then retries.

    If the error is for another reason it re-raises the error.

    Usage : ``shutil.rmtree(path, onerror=onerror)``
    """
    excvalue = exc[1]
    if func in (os.rmdir, os.remove, os.unlink) and excvalue.errno == errno.EACCES:
        os.chmod(path, stat.S_IRWXU | stat.S_IRWXG | stat.S_IRWXO)  # 0777
        func(path)
    else:
        raise

## 4.2 shutil.copytree(source_path, target_path)

copy source_path文件夹下的所有文件（包括子目录文件）拷贝到目标文件夹下。 保持原来的结构. 不copy本身这个文件夹。
target_path不需要之前就存在, 会被自动创建


## 4.3 shutil.rmtree(target_path)

不光之文件夹里面的内同， 
本身(target_path)的文件夹也会被删除删除
